Add EIP: Web3 URL to EVM Call Message Translation (#6860)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6860.md

query = "attribute_1=value_1 [ "&" attribute_2=value_2 ... ]
attribute = "returns" | "returnTypes" | other_attribute
```

where

- **web3Schema** indicates the schema of the URL, which is `web3://` or `w3://` for short.
- **userinfo** indicates which user is calling the EVM, i.e., "From" field in EVM call message. If not specified, the protocol will use 0x0 as the sender address.
- **contractName** indicates the contract to be called, i.e., "To" field in the EVM call message. If the **contractName** is an **address**, i.e., 0x + 20-byte-data hex, then "To" will be the address. Otherwise, the name is from a name service. In the second case, **nsProviderSuffix** will be the suffix from name service providers such as "eth", etc. The way to translate the name from a name service to an address will be discussed in later EIPs.
- **chainid** indicates which chain to resolve **contractName** and call the message. If not specified, the protocol will use the same chain as the name service provider, e.g., 1 for eth. If no name service provider is available, the default chainid is 1.
- **query** is an optional component containing a sequence of attribute-value pairs separated by "&".

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Reviewer: You're right, and even looking deeper into RFC 3986, I find out that they split the reserved chars into 2 groups: 

```
reserved    = gen-delims / sub-delims
gen-delims  = ":" / "/" / "?" / "#" / "[" / "]" / "@"
sub-delims  = "!" / "$" / "&" / "'" / "(" / ")"
                  / "*" / "+" / "," / ";" / "="
```

And also that depending of the component, the list of characters that need to be encoded is different:

Path:
```
path          = path-abempty
...
path-abempty  = *( "/" segment )
segment       = *pchar
pchar         = unreserved / pct-encoded / sub-delims / ":" / "@"
```

Host (in case of hostname):
```
reg-name    = *( unreserved / pct-encoded / sub-delims )
```

So here in this example they allow not-encoded ":" and "@" in path but not in host, because they have a special meaning in host.
So they optimize to make encoding mandatory when really necessary. I'll update the text to do it likewise here.

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Reviewer: Ok I have formalized this by adding : 

> 
> The URL must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3968) with rules very similar to the RFC. Per component, the rules are :
> - **userinfo** : Identical to **userinfo** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> - **contractName** : Identical to **reg-name** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> - **chainid** : Identical to **port** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> - **path** : Identical to **path-abempty** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A, except the character "!" that needs to be percent-encoded.
> - **query** : Identical to **query** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.

Question : I quite like the full formalization of the structure of the URL in [RFC 3986 Appendix A](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#appendix-A), I think it could be good to make a similar full formalization in an Appendix. What do you think?

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Reviewer: Thinking about the "!" character in **path** : If we assume that in the future we will not support domain name services that allows "!" as part of domain names (likely I guess), then we can skip this exception and be identical to the RFC ("!" are not required to be encoded in **path**).
I guess that's the way to go.

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Author: > Ok I have formalized this by adding :
> 
> > The URL must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3968) with rules very similar to the RFC. Per component, the rules are :
> > 
> > * **userinfo** : Identical to **userinfo** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> > * **contractName** : Identical to **reg-name** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> > * **chainid** : Identical to **port** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> > * **path** : Identical to **path-abempty** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A, except the character "!" that needs to be percent-encoded when not used as type/value separator in an **argument**.
> > * **query** : Identical to **query** as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A.
> 
> Question : I quite like the full formalization of the structure of the URL in [RFC 3986 Appendix A](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#appendix-A), I think it could be good to make a similar full formalization in an Appendix. What do you think?

Yes, I think we can make a similar structure to formalize the details for each component.

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Author: > Thinking about the "!" character in **path** : If we assume that in the future we will not support domain name services that allows "!" as part of domain names (likely I guess), then we can skip this exception and be identical to the RFC ("!" are not required to be encoded in **path**). I guess that's the way to go.
> 
> I have edited:
> 
> > The URL must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3968) with rules very similar to the RFC: Component **userinfo** follows **userinfo** encoding as defined in RFC 3986 Appendix A, component **contractName** follows **reg-name**, **chainid** follows **port**, **path** follows **path-abempty**, and **query** follows **query**.

I guess if the address contains `!` we can still use `address!abc%33.eth` to support it?

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Reviewer: > Yes, I think we can make a similar structure to formalize the details for each component.

Ok I will do that

> I guess if the address contains ! we can still use address!abc%33.eth to support it?

Yes; to be more precise (I think I was a bit confusing) : 

- If we choose to be similar to the RFC, that means that the ``!`` type/value delimiter can be either written as ``!`` or ``%21``. The problem is then : we cannot know if this is part of the domain name or not.. For example, if we have ``address%21abc%21.xyz``, then we cannot know if this is the ``abc!.xyz`` address (detected with the ``<type>!<value>`` syntax), or the ``address!abc!.xyz`` address (detected with auto-detection part 5 as an address)
- The "proper" way to handle that is to require the ``!`` type/value delimiter to always be written as ``!``, not ``%21``. It then makes it a tiny bit of difference with the RFC.

I will do the Appendix with the formal definition, and let's continue from there :)

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Author: I see.  If we put `!` as type/value delimiter defined in ABNF, then we should never use `%21%`.  I am not sure what is the specific difference with the RFC? 

That said, we could clarify the address part as below (feel free to comment)
- `address!vitalik.eth` is a valid address to lookup `vitalik` from ENS;
- `address%21vitalik.eth` is invalid as it cannot be recognized as any argument;
- `address!%21vitalik.eth` is a valid address to lookup `!vitalik` from ENS;
- `address!vitalik%2Eeth` is invalid as it cannot be recognized as a domain name with a TLD;
- `address!vitalik%2E.eth` is a valid address to lookup `vitalik.` from ENS;
- `address!!vitalik.eth` can be valid or invalid (any thoughts?)

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Reviewer: I agree that ``domainName`` stricter than ``reg-name`` without reason (we could break with some upcoming domain name services), I have modified it to be identical to RFC 3986 ; and indeed already you have made domain name resolution deferred in upcoming EIPs (such as 6821) ; since 6821 is lower than 6860 I have linked 6821 for ENS and kept the mention "will be discussed in later EIPs for other name services.".

I agree on case 1/ and case 2/ : the ``!`` type/value delimiter is in the ABNF so it's clear ``%21`` is not authorized as a delimiter.
Case 2/ and 6/ : I agree
Case 4/ and 5/ : I would disagree on that; the general workflow would be : 1/ extract ``<value>`` from ``<type>!<value>``, 2/ percent-decode ``<value>`` and then 3/ give ``<percent-decoded-value>`` to the domain name resolver code to do his work -- these would be 2 different layers. (Trying ``https://google%2Ecom`` on a browser, it does percent-decode it into ``google.com`` before doing resolution). So I would think : 
* `address!vitalik%2Eeth` is a valid address  to lookup ``vitalik.eth`` from ENS
* `address!vitalik%2E.eth` is invalid as it would lookup ``vitalik..eth`` from ENS

What do you think?

My modifications are at : 
https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/compare/master...nand2:ERCs:patch-1

> All non-ASCII characters must be encoded with URI percent-encoding (RFC 3986).

Author: Sounds good to me.  I just create the PR with the patch here https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/84

- **argument_i** is the i-th argument of the method. If **type** is specified, the value will be translated to the corresponding type. The protocol currently supports these basic types: bool, int, uint, int&lt;X&gt;, uint&lt;X&gt; (with X ranging from 8 to 256 in steps of 8), address, bytes&lt;X&gt; (with X ranging from 1 to 32), bytes, and string. If **type** is not specified, then the type will be automatically detected using the following rule in a sequential way:
    1. **type**="uint256", if **value** is numeric; or
    2. **type**="bytes32", if **value** is in the form of 0x+32-byte-data hex; or
    3. **type**="address", if **value** is in the form of 0x+20-byte-data hex; or
    4. **type**="bytes", if **value** is in the form of 0x followed by any number of bytes besides 20 or 32; or
    5. else **type**="address" and parse the argument as a domain name in the form of `[name "." [ subDomain0 "." ... ]] nsProviderSuffix`. In this case, the actual value of the argument will be obtained from **nsProviderSuffix**, e.g., eth.  If **nsProviderSuffix** is not supported, an unsupported NS provider error will be returned. 

    The format of **value** should be :

>     - If **type** is "string", then **value** is URI-percent-encoded (RFC 3986) for all non-ASCII characters and for the following characters: ``!``, ``/``, ``?``, ``%``.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If **type** is "string", then **value** is URI-percent-encoded for all characters except unreserved characters defined in RFC 3986.
```

```

where the contract "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48" is in auto mode.

The protocol will find the addresses of **vitalik.eth** from ENS on chainid 1 (Mainnet) and then call the method "balanceOf(address)" of the contract with the **vitalik.eth**'s address. The returned data from the call of the contract will be treated as ABI-type "(uint256)", and the decoded data will be returned to the frontend in JSON format like `[ "0x9184e72a000" ]`, with the information that the MIME type is ``application/json``.

#### Example 6

```
web3://0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48/balanceOf/vitalik.eth?returns=()
```

where the contract ”0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48“ is in auto mode.

The protocol will find the address of **vitalik.eth** from ENS on chainid 1 (Mainnet) and then call the method "balanceOf(address)" of the address. The returned data from the call of the contract will be treated as raw bytes and will be encoded in JSON format like `["0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000009184e72a000"]` and returned to the frontend, with the information that the MIME type is ``application/json``.

> ### Changes versus [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md)

Author: I think we should use EIP-4804 (also EIP over ERC) in the whole document.

Reviewer: Unfortunately, if I do so, I get errors from the EIP Walidator, which then prevents merging : 
```
error[markdown-refs]: references to proposals with a `category` of `ERC` must use a prefix of `ERC`
```

- Auto mode : If there is no **returns** attribute in **query**, [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) stipulates that the returned data is treated as ABI-encoded bytes32. This ERC indicates that in fact the returned data is treated as ABI-encoded bytes.

#### Clarifications

- URL format: This ERC indicates that the URL should be in ASCII format.
- Resolve mode: This ERC indicates more details on how the resolve mode is determined.
- Manual mode : This ERC indicates how to deal with URI-percent-encoding, the return data, and how the MIME type is determined.
- Auto mode : This ERC indicates in more details the encoding of the argument values, as well as the format and handling of the **returns** value.
- Examples : This ERC add more details to the examples.

#### Modifications

- Protocol name: [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) mentionned ``ethereum-web3://`` and ``eth-web3://``, these are removed.
- Auto mode: Supported types: [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) supported only uint256, bytes32, address, bytes, and string. This ERC add more types.

> - Auto mode: Encoding of returned integers when a **returns** attribute is specified: [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) suggested in example 5 to encode integers as strings. This ERC indicates to follow the ethereum JSON RPC spec and encode integers as a hex string, prefix with "0x".

Author: ```suggestion
- Auto mode: Encoding of returned integers when a **returns** attribute is specified: [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) suggested in example 5 to encode integers as strings. This ERC indicates to follow the Ethereum JSON RPC spec and encode integers as a hex string, prefixed with "0x".
```

## Rationale

> The purpose of the proposal is to add a decentralized presentation layer for Ethereum.  With the layer, we are able to render any web content (including HTML/CSS/JPG/PNG/SVG, etc) on-chain using human-readable URLs, and thus EVM can be served as decentralized Backend.  The design of the standard is based on the following principles:

Author: ```suggestion
The purpose of the proposal is to add a decentralized presentation layer for Ethereum.  With the layer, we are able to render any web content (including HTML/CSS/JPG/PNG/SVG, etc) on-chain using human-readable URLs, and thus EVM can be served as a decentralized backend.  The design of the standard is based on the following principles:
```

- **Human-readable**.  The Web3 URL should be easily recognized by human similar to Web2 URL (`http://`).  As a result, we support names from name services to replace address for better readability.  In addition, instead of using calldata in hex, we use human-readable method + arguments and translate them to calldata for better readability.

> - **Maximum-Compatible with HTTP-URL standard**.  The Web3 URL should be compatible with HTTP-URL standard including relative pathing, query, fragment, etc so that the support of existing HTTP-URL (e.g., by browser) can be easily extended to Web3 URL with minimal modification.  This also means that existing Web2 users can easily migrate to Web3 with minimal extra knowledge of this standard.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Maximum-Compatible with HTTP-URL standard**.  The Web3 URL should be compatible with HTTP-URL standard including relative pathing, query, fragment, percent-encoding, etc so that the support of existing HTTP-URL (e.g., by browser) can be easily extended to Web3 URL with minimal modification.  This also means that existing Web2 users can easily migrate to Web3 with minimal extra knowledge of this standard.
```
